.TH ipmi_sim 1 06/26/12 OpenIPMI "IPMI LAN BMC Simulator"

.SH NAME
ipmi_sim \- IPMI LAN BMC Simulator

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ipmi_sim
.RB [ \-c
.IR configfile ]
.RB [ \-f
.IR commandfile ]
.RB [ \-d ]
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-x
.IR command ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ipmi_sim
daemon emulates an IPMI BMC simulator that may be accessed using the
IPMI 1.5 or 2.0 LAN protocol, or via various serial protocols.  It is
useful stand-along for prototyping, or it may be used with a virtual
machine such as QEMU to provide an IPMI BMC emulator.

.B ipmi_sim
supports the full authentication capabilities of the IPMI LAN
protocol.

.B ipmi_sim
supports multiple IP addresses for fault-tolerance.  Note that
messages coming in on an address are always sent back out on the same
address they came in.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c\  config-file
Set the configuration file to one other than the default of
.I "/etc/ipmi_lan.conf"
.TP
.BI \-f\  command-file
Specify a command file to execute when
.B ipmi_sim
is starting.  This is generally used to set up the IPMI environment.
.TP
.B \-x\  command
Execute a single command.
.TP
.B \-d
Turns on debugging to standard output (if -n is not specified) and
the debug output of syslog.
.TP
.B \-n
Disables a console and I/O on standard input and output.


.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is accomplished through the file
.IR /etc/ipmi_lan.conf .
A file with another name or path may be specified using the
.B \-c
option.  See the ipmi_lan config file man page for more details.

.SH COMMANDS
When
.B ipmi_sim
starts up, it has an empty environment with no BMC or management
controllers.  You have to execute commands to set things up.  The
commands can also be used to set sensor states, inject events, and
other things you might want to do when simulating a BMC.  See the
ipmi_sim_cmd config file man page for details.

.SH SECURITY
.B ipmi_sim
implements normal IPMI security.  The default is no access for anyone,
so the default is pretty safe, but be careful what you add, because
this is access to control your box.  \fBstraight\fP and \fBnone\fP
authorizations are not recommended, you should probably stick with \fBmd2\fP
or \fBmd5\fP if you are not using \fBRMCP+\fP.

.SH "SIGNALS"
.TP 0.5i
.B SIGHUP
.B ipmi_sim
should handle SIGHUP and reread it's configuration files.  However, it
doesn't right now.  It might in the future, for now you will have to
kill it and restart it.  Clients should handle reconnecting in this
case.  If they don't, they are broken.

.SH "ERROR OUTPUT"
At startup, all error output goes to stderr.  After that, all error
output goes to syslog.

.SH "FILES"
/etc/ipmi_lan.conf

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ipmi_lan (5), ipmi_sim_cmd (5), ipmi_ui (1), openipmish (1)

.SH "KNOWN PROBLEMS"
Currently,
.B ipmi_sim
does not implement writing the config file.  IPMI commands to change
configuration options are accepted, but the permanent writing of the
changes does not currently work.

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Corey Minyard <cminyard@mvista.com>
