.TH ipmi_lan 5 06/26/12 OpenIPMI "IPMI LAN Interface config file"

.SH NAME
ipmi/lan.conf \- IPMI LAN Interface config file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/ipmi/lan.conf

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ipmi_sim
and
.B ipmilan
commands are configured using this configuration file.  

.SH CONFIGURATION ITEMS

The following fields are used in many commands:

.I "boolean"
May be "\fBtrue\fP", "\fBfalse\fP", "\fBon\fP" or "\fBoff\fP".

.I "priv"
An IPMI privilege level.  This may be "\fBcallback\fP", "\fBuser\fP", "\fBoperator\fP",
or "\fBadmin\fP".

.I "auth"
An IPMI authorization type.  This may be "\fBnone\fP" for no authentication,
"\fBstraight\fP" for straight, in-the-clear password authentication, "\fBmd2\fP"
for use MD2 message digest authentication, or "\fBmd5\fP" for using MD5
message digest authentication.

.SH FILE STRUCTURE

Blank lines and lines starting with `#' are ignored.

.PP
The following commands are allowed the configuration file:

.TP
\fBuser\fP \fIusernum\fP \fIenabled\fP \fIusername\fP \fIpassword\fP \fImax-priv\fP \fImax-session\fP [\fIauth\fP [\fIauth\fP [...]]]
.I usernum
specifies the user number for the user.  Note that user number \fB0\fP is
invalid, and user number \fB1\fP is the special "anonymous" user, whose
username is ignored.  This value may be up to \fB63\fP, the maximum possible
IPMI user.  If you want anonymous access, you
.B must
have a user number \fB1\fI.

.I enabled
is a boolean that specified whether the user is enabled or not.

.I username
specifies the name of the user, specified as a name.

.I password
specifies the password of the user, specified as a name.

.I max-priv
specifies the maximum privilege level allowed for the user.

.I max.sessions
specifies the maximum number of session the user may open.

.I auth
specifies the allowed authorization types for the user.  Only the specified ones
are allowed, so if none are specified, the user will be disabled.

.TP
\fBstartcmd\fP \fI"cmd"\fP
specifies a command to execute when a power on is requested.  This lets
a virtual machine be started that can then connect back to the simulator.

.TP
\fBconsole\fP \fIaddress\fP \fIport\fP
specifies that a console port be opened at the given address and port.
You can telnet to the console and execute emulation commands.  Note that
this is a pretty huge security hole, it should only be used for debugging
in a captive environment.

.TP
\fBserial\fP \fIchannel\fP \fIaddr\fP \fIport\fP [\fIoption\fP [\fIoption\fP [...]]]
.I channel
specifies the channel number or type.  This may be \fBkcs\fP,
\fBsmic\fP, or \fBbt\fP or it may be 15.  Currently, only the system
interface channel (channel 15) is supported for serial interfaces, if
the others are specified it is channel 15 and the given interface is
reported in channel configuration commands.

.I addr
specifies the IP address to listen on for connections.

.I port
specifies the port to listen on for connections.

Valid options are:

.I codec name
specifies which codec to use on the serial port.  Valid options are:
\fBTerminalMode\fP, \fBDirect\fP, \fBRadisysAscii\fP, and \fBVM\fP.
The first three are implementations of IPMI serial interfaces on
certain systems and might be used for simulations of that system.  The
\fBVM\fP is probably the most interesting; it is designed to be used
with a virtual machine like qemu.

.I oem name
specified implementation of some OEM custom commands and options
on the interface.  Valid options oare \fBPigeonPoint\fP and \fBRadisys\fP.

.I attn c1[,c2[...]]
specifies a list of characters, separated by commas, to use as the
attention character on the interface.  Generally the default is
correct.  The characters are specified as decimal, octal, or hex
digits in C style.

.I ipmb addr
specifies the IPMI address of the interface.  The default, 0x20, is
usually correct, but when emulating ATCA systems this might be
required.

.TP
\fBstartlan\fP \fIchannel\fP
Starts a LAN configuration area.  This specifies the settings for a LAN
connection using the given channel.  This may be specified more than
once in a file to support multiple LAN connections.  Commands following
this, up to \fBendlan\fP, are LAN-specific commands listed below.
.I channel
specifies the channel to set the LAN configuration for.

.SH LAN CONFIGURATION COMMANDS

The following commands are only valid inside a \fBstartlen\fP area.

.TP
\fBaddr\fP \fIIP-address\fP [\fIUDP-port\fP]
.I IP-address
specifies the IP address to use for an IP port. Up to 4 addresses may be
specified.  If no address is specified, it defaults to one port at
\fB0.0.0.0\fP (for every address on the machine) at port \fB623\fP.

.I UDP-port
specifies an optional port to listen on. It defaults to \fB623\fP (the standard port).

.TP
.BI PEF_alerting\  boolean
Turn PEF alerting on or off (not currently supported).

.TP
.BI per_msg_auth\  boolean
Turn per-message authentication on or off.

.TP
.BI priv_limit\  priv
The maximum privilege allowed on this interface.

.TP
\fBallowed_auths_callback\fP [\fIauth\fP [\fIauth\fP [...]]]
.I auth
specifies allowed authorization levels for the callback privilege level.  Only
the levels specified on this line are allowed for the authorization
level.  If this line is not present, callback authorization cannot be
used.

.TP
\fBallowed_auths_user\fP [\fIauth\fP [\fIauth\fP [...]]]
.I auth
specifies allowed authorization levels for the user privilege level.  Only
the levels specified on this line are allowed for the authorization
level.  If this line is not present, user authorization cannot be
used.

.TP
\fBallowed_auths_operator\fP [\fIauth\fP [\fIauth\fP [...]]]
.I auth
specifies allowed authorization levels for the operator privilege level.  Only
the levels specified on this line are allowed for the authorization
level.  If this line is not present, operator authorization cannot be
used.

.TP
\fBallowed_auths_admin\fP [\fIauth\fP [\fIauth\fP [...]]]
.I auth
specifies allowed authorization levels for the admin privilege level.  Only
the levels specified on this line are allowed for the authorization
level.  If this line is not present, user authorization cannot be
used.

.TP
\fBguid\fP \fIname\fP
Allows the 16-byte GUID for the IPMI LAN connection to be specified.
If this is not specified, then the GUID command is not supported.

.SH "FILES"
/etc/ipmi_lan.conf

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ipmilan (8), ipmi_sim (1)

.SH "KNOWN PROBLEMS"
IPMI is unnecessarily complicated.

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Corey Minyard <cminyard@mvista.com>
