.TH ipmilan 8 05/13/03 OpenIPMI "IPMI LAN to System Interface Converter"

.SH NAME
ipmilan \- IPMI LAN to System Interface Converter

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ipmilan
.RB [ \-c
.IR configfile ]
.RB [ \-i
.IR ipmidevice ]
.RB [ \-d ]
.RB [ \-n ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ipmilan
daemon allows an IPMI system interface using the OpenIPMI device
driver to be accessed using the IPMI 1.5 LAN protocol.

.B ipmilan
supports the full authentication capabilities of the IPMI LAN
protocol.

.B ipmilan
supports multiple IP addresses for fault-tolerance.  Note that
messages coming in on an address are always sent back out on the same
address they came in.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c\  config-file
Set the configuration file to one other than the default of
.I "/etc/ipmi_lan.conf"
.TP
.B \-n
Stops  the  daemon  from  forking  and  detaching  from the controlling
terminal. This is useful for running from init.
.TP
.B \-d
Turns on debugging to standard output.  You generally have to use
.B \-n
with this.


.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is accomplished through the file
.IR /etc/ipmi_lan.conf .
A file with another name or path may be specified using the
.B \-c
option.

The following fields are used in many commands:

.I "boolean"
May be "\fBtrue\fP", "\fBfalse\fP", "\fBon\fP" or "\fBoff\fP".

.I "priv"
An IPMI privilege level.  This may be "\fBcallback\fP", "\fBuser\fP", "\fBoperator\fP",
or "\fBadmin\fP".

.I "auth"
An IPMI authorization type.  This may be "\fBnone\fP" for no authentication,
"\fBstraight\fP" for straight, in-the-clear password authentication, "\fBmd2\fP"
for use MD2 message digest authentication, or "\fBmd5\fP" for using MD5
message digest authentication.


.TP
\fBaddr\fP \fIIP-address\fP [\fIUDP-port\fP]
.I IP-address
specifies the IP address to use for an IP port. Up to 4 addresses may be
specified.  If no address is specified, it defaults to one port at
\fB0.0.0.0\fP (for every address on the machine) at port \fB623\fP.

.I UDP-port
specifies an optional port to listen on. It defaults to \fB623\fP (the standard port).

.TP
.BI PEF_alerting\  boolean
Turn PEF alerting on or off (not currently supported).

.TP
.BI per_msg_auth\  boolean
Turn per-message authentication on or off.

.TP
.BI priv_limit\  priv
The maximum privilege allowed on this interface.

.TP
\fBallowed_auths_callback\fP [\fIauth\fP [\fIauth\fP [...]]]
.I auth
specifies allowed authorization levels for the callback privilege level.  Only
the levels specified on this line are allowed for the authorization
level.  If this line is not present, callback authorization cannot be
used.

.TP
\fBallowed_auths_user\fP [\fIauth\fP [\fIauth\fP [...]]]
.I auth
specifies allowed authorization levels for the user privilege level.  Only
the levels specified on this line are allowed for the authorization
level.  If this line is not present, user authorization cannot be
used.

.TP
\fBallowed_auths_operator\fP [\fIauth\fP [\fIauth\fP [...]]]
.I auth
specifies allowed authorization levels for the operator privilege level.  Only
the levels specified on this line are allowed for the authorization
level.  If this line is not present, operator authorization cannot be
used.

.TP
\fBallowed_auths_admin\fP [\fIauth\fP [\fIauth\fP [...]]]
.I auth
specifies allowed authorization levels for the admin privilege level.  Only
the levels specified on this line are allowed for the authorization
level.  If this line is not present, user authorization cannot be
used.

.TP
\fBuser\fP \fIusernum\fP \fIenabled\fP \fIusername\fP \fIpassword\fP \fImax-priv\fP \fImax-session\fP [\fIauth\fP [\fIauth\fP [...]]]
.I usernum
specifies the user number for the user.  Note that user number \fB0\fP is
invalid, and user number \fB1\fP is the special "anonymous" user, whose
username is ignored.  This value may be up to \fB63\fP, the maximum possible
IPMI user.  If you want anonymous access, you
.B must
have a user number \fB1\fI.

.I enabled
is a boolean that specified whether the user is enabled or not.

.I username
specifies the name of the user, specified as a name.

.I password
specifies the password of the user, specified as a name.

.I max-priv
specifies the maximum privilege level allowed for the user.

.I max.sessions
specifies the maximum number of session the user may open.

.I auth
specifies the allowed authorization types for the user.  Only the specified ones
are allowed, so if none are specified, the user will be disabled.

.TP
\fBguid\fP \fIname\fP
Allows the 16-byte GUID for the IPMI LAN connection to be specified.
If this is not specified, then the GUID command is not supported.

.PP
Blank lines and lines starting with `#' are ignored.

.SH SECURITY
.B ipmilan
implements normal IPMI security.  The default is no access for anyone,
so the default is pretty safe, but be careful what you add, because
this is access to control your box.  \fBstraight\fP and \fBnone\fP
authorizations are not recommended, you should probably stick with \fBmd2\fP
or \fBmd5\fP.

.SH "SIGNALS"
.TP 0.5i
.B SIGHUP
.B ipmilan
should handle SIGHUP and reread it's configuration files.  However, it
doesn't right now.  It might in the future, for now you will have to
kill it and restart it.  Clients should handle reconnecting in this
case.  If they don't, they are broken.

.SH "ERROR OUTPUT"
At startup, all error output goes to stderr.  After that, all error
output goes to syslog.

.SH "FILES"
/etc/ipmi_lan.conf

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ipmi_ui (1)

.SH "KNOWN PROBLEMS"
Currently,
.B ipmilan
does not implement writing the config file.  IPMI commands to change
configuration options are accepted, but the permanent writing of the
changes does not currently work.

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Corey Minyard <cminyard@mvista.org>
